So now we're kinda moving
into the sources tab.
And the thing that I always like I
have these two screenshots here,
like when you really think
about the sources tab,
it's sort of like your custom,
your IDE built into the dev tools.
So, here's like the exact same file open
in my dev tools and then open in my IDE,
which I use VS code.
So you have like the center panel,
which has the code in it line numbers and
everything.
You got the left sidebar,
which is like a tree that you can
kinda walk just like this one here.
And the difference is you got all these
great debugging things on the right,
which we'll play with in
the debugging section.
But you can even hide those and then just
deal with this so you can really just use
it as your IDE. Which is what we're
gonna do in the next exercise.
It's got a lot of your favorite things in
it like so for example, if I open up dev
tools here, and I go to sources, and let
me get rid of this little console drawer,
if anybody's wondering about this,
you can go to the dot dot dot here.
And you can do show console drawer or
you can use the Escape key.
And that'll give you a console
overlaid on any non console panel.
So you can be on the elements with the
console or the network with a console or
sources with a console and
then you can just X or escape to hide it.
That's really useful sometimes if you
just wanna log something out and see it.
So if I go here, you get a lot of
the things that work in your current IDE.
So for example, if I do a command P which
in VS code will open a fuzzy search on
the files,
I get the exact same fuzzy search here.
I can bring up any file like that.
A lot of the same shortcuts for
commenting and all that stuff will work.
So I'd really encourage you to when you're
in sources just to try whatever feels
natural and
see if it just happens to work here.
Cool.
So yeah, it's like your full IDE and
we're gonna play with that a lot
as we play with workspaces.
So workspaces are super, super cool.
They're what let you persist
your changes to disk, but
it wouldn't be super cool thing without
some super serious limitations on it.
So before we get too far
excited with workspaces,
let's talk about what it can and
what it can't do.
And so the limitation if
you think about apps, and
you think about kinda what we're
doing here, if there is a one to one
correspondence between what you
kinda send down over the server and
what you author on the server and what you
author and what you view in the website.
And what I mean by that is like
If you make an index.html,
then when I hit your website, the same
index.html that you hand wrote is gonna
come to me, right like it's the same
file just automatically transferred.
If you write a node app, and you use
a templating language like moustache and
you hand write a moustache file,
the templating language,
we'll turn that into an index.html and
send it to me, right?
That's kinda how that's working.
So in the first example,
you write HTML, it sends HTML.
There's a one to one example that'll
work great with a workspace no problem.
And the second example,
we're using a templating language.
That won't work with a workspace because
if I update my index.html on my
laptop inside the workspace,
your server doesn't really have a way of
knowing which template file to update.
It's it's that would be too complex.
So in those situations,
you can still persist your CSS and
your JavaScript changes to disk.
But you cannot persist your HTML
changes to this because you're not
actually writing HTML.
And this is also sadly true.
With tools like React where again,
you're not writing the HTML,
you're writing JSX and
React is turning it into HTML.
So, in the dev tools,
you'll see index.html.
But there as you know, there really
isn't an index.html on the server.
It's like an index.js or like 20 js files.
So there is a limitation there.
Sometimes it's confusing,
but it's basically,
like if the thing that's
on my dev tool laptop is
the exact same thing that is in my code,
then it's easy to persist.
If it's not, then it's not gonna persist.
So oftentimes,
the sad reality is with like the current
tech stacks are very build chain heavy.
Like I'm sure a lot of you at work or
like, you use React and you use Babble and
use a templating engine and
all these different things or
use a CSS preprocessor.
That will mean that the workspace
idea won't work for you.
But if you are working with vanilla CSS,
or vanilla JavaScript, or vanilla HTML,
then workspaces will be awesome.
So does that make sense?
I'm gonna pause if anybody has questions,
and I know that's like a very,
kinda a confusing concept.
So let me just pause for a sec if
anybody has any questions on that.
>> Yes, I have.
Can we just save the changes and
for example from the website
google.com and save the changes and
reload the page so
we can just load the external
JavaScript but with our changes?
>> Yeah, you can.
That's a great question.
So it's like, can we,
instead of like saving to disk,
let's say and updating actual source code,
can we set it up so
that we can persist changes
through a refresh basically.
And we will cover that in another section.
The short answer is yes,
there are still some limitations.
Some things we can't save.
But for the most part,
yeah, you can set it up so
that like you can change the JavaScript
and it'll survive a refresh, but
it won't actually write to your local,
the code bases file system.
But yeah, we will be able to do that.
And that's not using workspaces
that's just built in with
the dev tools networking tool, but
we can do it there, which is cool.